# Project Description

Our project can be divided into two equally important aspects of design. Considering what the client wants, and how to give them as close to that as possible,and what we need as a team to reach that goal. We decided to work with Team Sunergy because, as an intercollegiate solar-car race team, it seemed they had large amounts of data pertinent to their daily activities and there was no current hub to access or manage that data. As this is a group project it was also obvious to us that we should figure out how to best work as a team to produce the best product possible, and to build skills necessary for post-university life. By combining and focusing on the development of these two things we are on our way to building a quality product.

Team Sunergy is Appalachian State’s solar car racing team, and due to their recent success, they largely run like a non-profit business. Their team is divided into 3 smaller teams (Business, Electrical, and Mechanical) and each of those teams have their own smaller sub teams. Each of these sub teams has a different goal, a number of projects, and requires any number of tools to meet their goals.

After meeting with the leadership of the team it quickly became apparent that they thought the greatest utility could be in tracking who was on these teams, what they were working on, how their budget was being spent, their carbon footprint, what tools were being used, and their race results. Our development team noticed that several of these categories were very closely related while a few were more tangential. Our desire to create the best, most tightly related, database management system possible lead us to focus on the teams, members, projects, parts, expenses, and donations. By doing so we can offer Team Sunergy the ability to monitor who is working on what, where progress is being made, how close to budget they are, how much money is coming in, what parts are missing, and much more.

Originally when our project began for almost all of us, it seemed like we didn’t have much to do at our meetings. Rather than waste our time, we began deciding how we could practice industry standards of team development through solid team values, communication, responsibilities, and tools. As such we have begun trying several agile methodologies to our practices, utilized tools such as github, google drive, and google hangouts, and focused on what each of our members required to feel satisfied in their work and as a person. It would be remiss of us to not note the positive effect this has had on us as team members, and the positive effect it has had on our relationship with our client.
